# Learning about Version Control
Author: Gurman Gill
Solving merge conflicts takes conscious effort, but I can do it!

The thing I like the most about version control is that it makes managing my projects significantly easier, especially when I'm working in a larger group. In apps like Google Docs, when you are working on a team of people, every single change is a finalized change unless you use the suggestions and comments feature within the app so that team members can suggest changes to certain parts. Along with that, there is also an edit history feature that shows the entire history of the document, meaning you can revert to a previous version or simply view what changes each member made at a certain point in history. This was my first sort of experience with a version control system, so when I began programming and working on data science and coding projects, I was glad that there was a way to keep track of versions and changes in an easy way, just like Google Docs. I like being able to keep track of everything, because if down the line something is messed up or a team member is suggesting a feature that we may need to test before implementing into our final copy of the project, it makes the process significantly more streamlined and easier to manage.

The thing that is most confusing and frustrating with version control is getting used to using a terminal window to make a lot of your changes. As I mentioned before, Google Docs (while not used for the same purposes as Git and GitHub) was my first experience with version control. Everything had a simple UI that was easy to use and navigate. With Git and GitHub, while a lot of IDE's support Github and Git extensions that make it easier to use version control, a lot of commands need to be done manually in a terminal using commands that take a little bit to learn. Its frustrating at first when you are first learning version control, but gets better and less challenging as you continue to practice and use it.
